+++
title = "2024-05-21"
date = 2024-05-21

[taxonomies]
authors = ["Luísa Coelho"]
+++

---

Today is Tuesday, day 142 of 366 (38.79%). We're in week 21 of 52 (40.38%).

## Planning

What I am going to do today:

- [x] [Make requested changes](https://github.com/OmnicodeSolutions/scanspend/pull/2#pullrequestreview-2051203739)
- [x] [Automate Blog translation](https://github.com/OmnicodeSolutions/blog/issues/182)

## Activities executed

Today I made some tiny changes to Scanspend's technologies study; I just added [sections for Python and Rust](https://github.com/OmnicodeSolutions/scanspend/blob/18ed7853ecaefa87304eb7aee70b744bfa13ccfa/docs/technologies_study.md?plain=1#L81C1-L87C6).

After that, I went back to automating the blog translation with OpenAI so that I don't have to manually ask ChatGPT every day. About yesterday's problem, I knew I was forgetting to import the environmental variables somehow, so I did some research and what worked was:

1. Installing dotenv: `pip install python-dotenv`

2. Using `load_dotenv()`:

```python
from dotenv import load_dotenv

load_dotenv()
```

After this, `OpenAI()` worked just fine. The rest went quite smoothly. I made it so that you can pass the date to the script when calling it from the command line (but if you don't, it will look for the file from the current date) and used a higher `max_tokens` to make sure the whole thing gets translated.

The only thing missing right now is erasing the old text from the `.pt.md` file before copying the translated text into it. I thought I could just create it as an empty file instead of using the [`template-diario.md` template](https://github.com/OmnicodeSolutions/blog/blob/main/template-diario.md), but if ChatGPT doesn't work for some reason, I'll have to do the file manually from scratch instead of just translating the `Activities executed` and `Learnings` sections, so I don't really like this idea.

## Learnings

Today I learned about more `open()` function modes. I already knew about the basic ones: `'w'` (write), `'r'` (read), and `'a'` (append), but today I learned that there are many others, like:

1. `'r+'` (read and write): preserves the file's existing content and allows reading and writing

2. `'w+'` (write and read): truncates the file (erases its content) and allows reading and writing

There are a lot other that VSCode suggests, but I didn't dig deep into any of them.
