+++
title = "2024-05-07"
date = 2024-05-07

[taxonomies]
authors = ["Luísa Coelho"]
+++

---

Today is Tuesday, day 128 of 366 (34.97%). We're in week 19 of 52 (36.53%).

## Planning

What I am going to do today:

- [ ] [Finish translating the website](https://github.com/OmnicodeSolutions/website/issues/101)

## Activities executed

Today I translated all the service pages. It took me a while because I realized I had to get all the content from the markdown files and turn them into a one-line string to go into the `i18n.json` file (I used ChatGPT to help me), and that looks really ugly, so I did some research to try to find a way to at least break the string and make reading/editing easier in the future. The only possible solution I found was making it an array and using `join()` in it after, but apparently the `theme-intl` plugin doesn't allow that since it will return a string saying `key 'services.consultants.callToAction (pt)' returned an object instead of string.` instead of the actual object. In the end, I had to keep the really long strings with the page's content.

It's also important to say that I had to tweak the navigation a little bit. The `gatsby-theme-intl` plugin comes with its own `Link` tag that makes sure the language you're currently on doesn't change when you go to another page. In a couple of components, I just had to make sure I changed the import:

```js
//Old
import { Link } from "gatsby"

//New
import { Link } from "@3nvi/gatsby-theme-intl"
```

But when I did this for the [Header component](https://github.com/OmnicodeSolutions/website/blob/2bb9c4314e8102e0ece4f25dd45a1bb695cc1733/src/components/header.js#L1C1-L150C22), the `scrollTo()` function didn't work properly. It was quite an easy fix; I just imported `gatsby-theme-intl`'s `Link` with an alias:

```js
import { Link as ThemeLink } from "@3nvi/gatsby-theme-intl"
```

and used it where the buttons were supposed to redirect and not just scroll.

Now all that's left to finish the translation are the legal pages and after it I can work on adding a button to toggle between languages.
