+++
title = "2024-05-28"
date = 2024-05-28

[taxonomies]
authors = ["Luísa Coelho"]
+++

---

Today is Tuesday, day 149 of 366 (40.71%). We're in week 22 of 52 (42.30%).

## Planning

What I am going to do today:

- [ ] Finish internship report with LLMs

## Activities executed

Today I didn't finish the report, but I'm definitely a lot closer to it. I tried to use OpenAI directly instead of LangChain so that I could use `gpt-3.5-turbo-instruct` as a model because according to [this documentation](https://platform.openai.com/settings/organization/limits) its token limit is high enough to make the report. However, when I ran it, I got the token limit error saying the limit was much lower. I did a lot more research and eventually found [this other documentation](https://platform.openai.com/docs/models/continuous-model-upgrades) that says the same model has a much lower TPM limit, which is the actual number I was getting in the error. However, it also says that `gpt-4o` can handle up to 128,000 tokens but when I tried it, it gave the same token limit error saying it's 30,000.

I got tired of not getting anywhere with this, so I decided I'm going to do the reports by trimester, and if I need a report that covers more time (which I will), I'll just make as many trimester reports as I need and then put them together. I had to do a lot of reorganizing the code, and I also separated everything into neat functions to keep it organized. Basically, in [`ingest_data.py`](https://github.com/OmnicodeSolutions/blog/blob/summarize_llm/ingest_data.py), we only have the `create_collection` function, which creates a `blog_posts.pkt` file with the given blog files' names. In [`query_data.py`](https://github.com/OmnicodeSolutions/blog/blob/summarize_llm/query_data.py), we have two functions that create reports: one from blog posts and the other from other reports, plus a function that saves reports to the `report.md` file.

The main addition here is [create_report.py](https://github.com/OmnicodeSolutions/blog/blob/summarize_llm/create_report.py), which handles everything I explained before; it checks how many months I'm asking for and either calls only once for `create_report_from_blog` and saves its response, or it splits the time period into maximum 3-month-long periods, makes reports out of them, and then calls for `create_report_from_reports` to summarize everything. Or at least that's what it will do once I finish it.

It took me some time to figure out how to handle the dates and the math was a bit confusing to think about. The `calculate_months_diff` and `calculate_days_diff` functions handle this, and I just use the results to make sure I'm getting a file from the range I want.

## Learnings

Today I learned how to create a `date` object from a 'yyyy-mm-dd' string using `datetime`:

```python
import datetime

date_str = datetime.datetime.strptime(date_str, "%Y-%m-%d")
```

how to get the day difference between two `dates` by simply doing:

```python
from datetime import date

a = date(year, month, day)
b = date(year, month, day)

days_diff = (a - b).days
```

and how to add time periods to dates with:

```python
import datetime
from dateutil.relativedelta import relativedelta

date_after_month = datetime.date.today() + relativedelta(months=1)  # In this example, we're adding a month to today's date
```

I also learned about `argparse`, which can be used to write command-line interfaces, including adding named parameters. For example:

```python
import argparse
import datetime

parser = argparse.ArgumentParser()

parser.add_argument("--date", default=str(datetime.date.today()))

args = parser.parse_args()

print(f'Date: {args.date}')
```

In this code, we added a `--date` named parameter, so when running the code from the command line, we can do:

```bash
python your_code.py --date='2024-03-26'

# Date: 2024-03-26
```
